# barry-bonds
Probabilistic analysis of scenario in https://youtu.be/JwMfT2cZGHg.

Summary

Barry Bonds' 2004 season resulted in the highest OBP in the history of Major League Baseball. The YouTube video linked above poses the question: how much of that was due to his hitting ability, and how much was due to intimidation alone? The video describes a simulation of that season as if Bonds never swung at the pitches he received, with the goal of finding out just how well he'd do if his hitting ability were removed from the picture. At many of his plate appearances, he did not receive enough pitches that a result would be determined if he hadn't swung the bat, so that simulation used a random number generator to determine additional pitches in those cases. The upside of this method is that the simulation is realistic to how baseball works in real life, but the downside is that there is uncertainty that comes from using a random number generator, and it isn't possible to tell whether the expected value of the simulation's result was above, below, or equal to the result in the video.

I wanted to know what that expected value was, so I conducted a simulation that eliminated uncertainty altogether. To do this, I used a probabilistic algorithm, which gave a fractional expected value for the probability of Bonds getting on base at each plate appearance. This is not a realistic simulation, since the number of on-base hits after each plate appearance does not remain an integer, but it does eliminate the uncertainty of the random number generator. My script here carries out the calculation for the expected number of on-base hits, and consequently the expected on-base percentage, for how Bonds' 2004 season might have played out if he never swung his bat.
